.\"/* Copyright 1988,1990,1993 by Paul Vixie
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" *
.\" * Distribute freely, except: don't remove my name from the source or
.\" * documentation (don't take credit for my work), mark your changes (don't
.\" * get me blamed for your possible bugs), don't alter or remove this
.\" * notice.  May be sold if buildable source is provided to buyer.  No
.\" * warrantee of any kind, express or implied, is included with this
.\" * software; use at your own risk, responsibility for damages (if any) to
.\" * anyone resulting from the use of this software rests entirely with the
.\" * user.
.\" *
.\" * This manual page was extensively modified by Bryan Henderson 2000.04.29.
.\" 
.\" 
.TH CRON 8 "29 April 2000"
.UC 3
.SH NAME
crond \- daemon to execute scheduled commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crond
.RB [ -e ]
.RB [ -f
.IR configuration_file ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B crond
is the daemon that forms the center of the ``cron'' system, a system for
running automated jobs at scheduled times.

Though a system needs only one daemon, which runs as superuser, the jobs
can run in the context of various users.  The jobs and their schedules
are defined by files known as ``crontabs,'' which are described in 
.BR crontab (5).
Crontabs are normally created and maintained with the program
.BR crontab (1).

.B crond 
wakes up once per minute, starts any cron jobs scheduled for that 
minute, and then goes back to sleep.  Each cron job is a separate process,
in the context of its owner.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -e
With this option, 
.B crond
passes all the environment variables with which it was invoked on to
every cron job it runs.  Without it,
.BR crond 's
environment does not affect a cron job's environment.  Cron jobs also get
a few environment variables that 
.B crond
sets itself and a user can specify environment variables in the crontab.
See 
.BR crontab (5)
for details.
.TP
.B -f \fIconfig_file
.I config_file
is the file specification of the configuration file.  It defaults to 
/etc/cron.conf.  Note that for 
.B crontab
to be effective, it must use the same configuration file as 
.BR crond ,
or at least a similar one.  And due to the nature of 
.BR crontab ,
the user cannot specify the configuration file as an invocation option --
it has to be built in.


.SH DETAILS

.B crond 
keeps all the crontabs in memory.  When it wakes up each minute,
before checking the schedule, it checks for updated crontabs by looking
first at the modification time of the crontab directory, and if that is
since the last time 
.B crond
checked, it then looks at the modification times of all the crontabs
in the directory.  This means you can modify a crontab and unless you
also touch the directory that contains it, your modifications will not
take effect right away.
.B crontab
always touches the directory to ensure that your changes take effect
immediately.
.B crond
also checks the modification time of the system crontab and refreshes
that if necessary.

.B crond
starts cron jobs with Standard Output and Standard Error pipe files
open and collects any output to them.  If there is any,
.B crond
mails it to the owner of the cron job (except that the owner can
specify an alternate destination for the mail).  The method of this
mailing is determined by the cron configuration file.  Typically, 
.B crond
runs 
.BR sendmail .

.B crond
keeps track of when it last ran as the modification time of its
``lastrun'' file, which it touches every time it runs a job.
When 
.B crond
starts, it checks this file and, if it exists, performs a
``catch-up.''  This means that it determines all the jobs that would
have run had it been running continuously, and schedules the missed
ones immediately.  Settings in the crontabs for each cron job
determine whether a job should be omitted from catch-up processing,
run once per catch-up regardless of how many times it was missed, or
run as many times as it was missed.

The configuration file determines the following aspects of
.BR crond 's
operation:
.IP
The location of the user crontabs

The system crontab

Destination for logging messages

How to mail the results of cron jobs

The file that records the Process ID (PID) of 
.B crond
while it is running

The file that records when 
.B crond
last ran (for purposes of catch-up when 
.B crond
runs again).
.PP
For details of the configuration file format and capabilities, see the
comments in the configuration file.

You need not have a configuration file; in fact, in older
cron systems, there isn't one and all configuration parameters are built
into
.BR crond . 
There are default configuration parameters for everything you can set in 
the configuration file.  It is common for cron installers to modify the
.B crond
code to change these defaults and not modify this documentation, so
take the following paragraph with a grain of salt.  You should just
specify what you want explicitly in the configuration file.

The defaults are as follows: The system crontab is /etc/crontab.  The
user crontabs are in /var/spool/cron.  The PID file is
/var/run/crond.pid and the last-run file is /var/lib/lastrun.  Log
messages go to /var/log/cron and not to syslog.
.B crond
mails a message by invoking 
.B sendmail 
with the arguments 
.B -FCronDaemon -odi -oem -- 
.I mailto 
where 
.I mailto 
is the value of the cron job's
.B MAILTO
environment variable or, if 
.B MAILTO
is not defined or is a null string, the username of the cron job owner.
The pathname for 
.B sendmail
is the 
.B _PATH_SENDMAIL 
macro in the platform for which 
.B crond
was built.

A system typically starts 
.B crond
from its startup scripts, e.g. /etc/rc.

.B crond
spawns a background process and the the foreground process terminates
immediately.  In other words, there is no need to invoke it with "&".

.SH BUGS
.B cron
might not show the expected results if it is shut down before it finishes
processing all the jobs that it has to catch up. See file BUGS for further
known BUGS and workarounds.

.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/cron.conf
/var/spool/cron/
/etc/passwd
/etc/crontab
/var/lib/cron.lastrun
/var/run/crond.pid
/var/log/cron

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR crontab (1), 
.BR crontab (5)

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Paul Vixie <paul@vix.com>
modifications by Felix Braun <fbraun@atdot.org>
modifications by Bryan Henderson <bryanh@giraffe-data.com>



