.\"/* Copyright 1988,1990,1993 by Paul Vixie
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" *
.\" * Distribute freely, except: don't remove my name from the source or
.\" * documentation (don't take credit for my work), mark your changes (don't
.\" * get me blamed for your possible bugs), don't alter or remove this
.\" * notice.  May be sold if buildable source is provided to buyer.  No
.\" * warrantee of any kind, express or implied, is included with this
.\" * software; use at your own risk, responsibility for damages (if any) to
.\" * anyone resulting from the use of this software rests entirely with the
.\" * user.
.\" *
.\" * Send bug reports, bug fixes, enhancements, requests, flames, etc., and
.\" * I'll try to keep a version up to date.  I can be reached as follows:
.\" * Paul Vixie          <paul@vix.com>          uunet!decwrl!vixie!paul
.\" */
.\" 
.\" 
.TH CRON 8 "02 October 1998"
.UC 3
.SH NAME
hc-cron \- daemon to execute scheduled commands on computers that do not run
all the time (``home computers'')
.SH SYNOPSIS
cron
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cron
should be started from /etc/rc or /etc/rc.local.  It will return immediately,
so you don't need to start it with '&'. It searches /var/spool/cron for 
crontab files which are named after accounts in /etc/passwd; these files are
normally created by
.IR crontab(1) .
Crontabs found are loaded into memory.
.I Cron
then searches for /etc/crontab which is in a different format (see
.IR crontab(5) ).
At startup
.I cron
looks in /var/lib/cron.lastrun when it was shut down for the last time, it
schedules jobs that occured between then and now (see
.IR crontab(5) ).
.PP
.I Cron
then wakes up every minute, examining all stored crontabs, checking each
command to see if it should be run in the current minute.  When executing
commands, any output is mailed to the owner of the crontab (or to the user
named in the MAILTO environment variable in the crontab, if such exists).
.PP
Additionally,
.I cron
checks each minute to see if its spool directory's modtime (or the modtime
on
.IR /etc/crontab )
has changed, and if it has,
.I cron
will reload all crontabs which have changed.  Thus
.I cron
need not be restarted whenever a crontab file is modified.  Note that the
.IR Crontab (1)
command updates the modtime of the spool directory whenever it changes a
crontab.
.SH BUGS
.I Cron
might not show the expected results if it is shut down before it finishes
processing all the jobs that it has to catch up. See file BUGS for further
known BUGS and workarounds.
.SH FILES
.nf
/var/spool/cron/
/etc/passwd
/etc/crontab
/var/lib/cron.lastrun
.SH "SEE ALSO"
crontab(1), crontab(5)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Paul Vixie <paul@vix.com>
modifications by Felix Braun <fbraun@atdot.org>
