.\"/* Copyright 1988,1990,1993 by Paul Vixie
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" *
.\" * Distribute freely, except: don't remove my name from the source or
.\" * documentation (don't take credit for my work), mark your changes (don't
.\" * get me blamed for your possible bugs), don't alter or remove this
.\" * notice.  May be sold if buildable source is provided to buyer.  No
.\" * warrantee of any kind, express or implied, is included with this
.\" * software; use at your own risk, responsibility for damages (if any) to
.\" * anyone resulting from the use of this software rests entirely with the
.\" * user.
.\" *
.\" * This manual page was extensively modified by Bryan Henderson 2000.04.29.
.\"
.\" $Id: crontab.1,v 1.2 2000/06/18 09:53:30 fbraun Exp $
.\"
.TH CRONTAB 1 "29 April 2000"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
crontab \- maintain crontab files for individual users (V3)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crontab 
.RB [ -u 
.IR user ] 
.I file
.br
.B crontab 
.RB [ -u 
.IR user ] 
.RB { -l | -r | -e }

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B crontab
is the program used to install, deinstall or list crontabs, the tables
used to drive the
.B cron
system.

Although crontabs are simple files, for security reasons the users to whom
they belong cannot simply edit them.
.B crontab
is installed with the privilege to access and update the crontab files.

The format of a crontab is described in
.BR crontab (5).

Standard Unix file permissions determine who is able to run
.BR crontab .
In addition, If the 
.I allow
file exists, then you must be listed therein to be allowed to use
.BR crontab .
If the
.I allow
file does not exist, but the
.I deny
file does exist, then you must \fBnot\fR be listed in the
.I deny
file to use 
.BR crontab .

If you specify the
.B -u
option, the value is the username of the user whose crontab is to be
tweaked.  If you don't, 
.B crontab
examines ``your'' crontab, i.e., the crontab of the user who invoked
.BR crontab .
Note that
.BR su (8)
can confuse
.B crontab
and that if you are running inside of
.BR su (8),
you should always use the
.B -u
option for safety's sake.

The first form of this command is used to install a new crontab 
or replace an existing one.  
.I file
is the file specification of a file whose contents form the crontab.
The special value
.B -
mean Standard Input.

The
.B -l
option tells 
.B crontab 
to copy the currently installed crontab to Standard Output.

The
.B -r
option tells 
.B crontab
to delete the currently installed crontab.

The
.B -e
option is used to edit the current crontab using the editor specified by
the \s-1VISUAL\s+1 or \s-1EDITOR\s+1 environment variables.  After you exit
from the editor, 
.B crontab 
installs the modified file, if you made any modifications.

The cron configuration file, /etc/cron.conf, tells 
.B crontab
where the installed crontabs live, and identifies the allow and deny
files.  If the configuration file doesn't exist, the crontabs are in
/var/spool/cron, and the allow and deny files are /etc/cron.allow and
/etc/cron.deny, respectively.

.B crontab
logs its activities to a log file and/or to syslog, depending on the
settings in the configuration file, /etc/cron.conf.  If the file does
not exist, 
.B crontab
logs to /var/log/cron and not to syslog.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR crontab (5), 
.BR cron (8)

.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/cron.allow
/etc/cron.deny
/etc/cron.conf
.fi

.SH STANDARDS
.B crontab
conforms to IEEE Std1003.2-1992 (``POSIX'').  This new command syntax
differs from previous versions of Vixie Cron, as well as from the classic
SVR3 syntax.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Paul Vixie <paul@vix.com>
Modifications by Bryan Henderson <bryanh@giraffe-data.com>
