
Home Computer Cron
------------------

*********** WARINING **** WARINING **** WARNING **************************

This version is a development release! The stable version of this program is
hc-cron 0.13! Don't expect everything to work without glitches out-of-the-box.
Please report any bugs you encounter or make other suggestions to improve
this program.

**************************************************************************

Does your computer run 24 hours a day? Are you establishing uptime records
that would scare users of other OS's? If so, this program is not for you.
However, if you turn your computer off at least once a day, like the rest of
us, you might find it quite helpful. This program is a modification of Paul
Vixie's cron daemon that is intended for ``home computers'' i.e. computers
that don't run all the time. Basicly what it does in addition to standard
cron behaviour, is to remember the time it was shut down in the file
/var/lib/cron.lastrun (or something similar) then reads it back at startup
and looks whether any jobs have occured while it was down. If so, these are
scheduled and executed one every minute. The files included in this
distribution are those of the original vixie-cron3.0.1 with only minor
changes, except for hccron.c which contains the additional code.

I hacked this piece of code together because I was annoyed that standard
cron didn't run the jobs regularly on my laptop. The same problem is solved
by anacron (a program from the Debian Linux distribution); however I felt,
that adding yet another program to startup was the wrong approach. So I took
a deep breath, downloaded the sources of vixie-cron (actually the patched
version that is included in RedHat5.0) and tried my best. However, I don't
really feel like my knowledge of C and programming in the UNIX environment
is sufficient for such a project (also I have a thesis to write in real
life, and it isn't in computer science). So I'd be happy if a *real*
programmer could take the code, improve it, make it portable and so on.

That being said, the program works nicely on my computer, however I don't
guarantee it will on yours. If you or your computer take any damage from
running this program (or looking at the source :), I refuse any liability.
My additions to the code are placed under the GNU General Public License
(Version 2 or later), please see the file COPYING for details.

